---
layout: post
title: Assignment 05
---


### Source-available vs open source
What is meant by “source-available” licenses? Find some examples of licenses that are “source available”, but don’t meet the “OSI Open Source Definition ”. What clauses do they violate?

A:

"Source-available" licensing refers to software licenses where the source code is publicly accessible, but the usage, modification, or redistribution is restricted in ways that violate the Open Source Definition (OSD) established by the Open Source Initiative (OSI).

According to the OSI, open source software must meet 10 specific criteria. Some of the most commonly violated clauses by source-available licenses include free Redistribution, no discriminaton against fields of endeavor, license must not restrict other software.
MongoDB's SSPL, Elastic's Elastic License 2.0, and MariaDB's BUSL licenses do not meet the OSI Open Source Definition. MongoDB's SSPL violates 'no discriminaton against fields of endeavor' and 'license must not restrict other software'. Elastic's Elastic License 2.0 violates 'free Redistribution' and 'no discriminaton against fields of endeavor'. MariaDB's BUSL violates free redistribution.
While they aim to protect original developers and business models, they also restrict openness and can discourage community contributions.

---

### Artificial Intelligence software
What does the OpenRAILs license try to do? See Hugging Face reading above (Section 6.1).
Would OSI judge that license to be “open source”? Which provisions, if any, might it violate?

A:

The OpenRAIL approach taken by the RAIL Initiative and supported by Hugging Face is informed and inspired by initiatives such as BigScience, Open Source, and Creative Commons.

The 2 main features of an OpenRAIL license are "Open" and "Responsible". These licenses allow royalty free access, flexible downstream use, and redistribution of the AI artifact, including derivatives. Also, OpenRAIL licenses embed a specific set of restrictions not to use the model for the specified restricted scenarios.

The OpenRAIL license is likely not compliant with the Open Source Definition (OSD) provided by OSI, due to several potentially violated clauses "Free Redistribution", "No Discrimination Against Persons or Groups", "No Discrimination Against Fields of Endeavor", "License Must Not Restrict Other Software".
First, Restrictions based on usage purposes limit the freedom to redistribute the software. Second, Prohibiting certain uses could indirectly discriminate against specific users or groups. Third, Banning use in specific domains such as military or surveillance directly violates this clause. Lastly, Use-based restrictions may impose limitations on how derivative works or combined software can be used or distributed.